Initialize repo (#1)
ballerina-guides/ftgo-microservices-example: README.md

> # Microservices example in Ballerina

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# FTGO microservices example in Ballerina
```

## Overview
This example is based on the [FTGO application](https://github.com/microservices-patterns/ftgo-application), a sample of an online food delivery application, connecting consumers and restaurants.

![Architectute](/assets/architecture.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: Shall we add a subtopic for services here?

> The example has five different services

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example has the five different services below.
```

* Consumer
* Restaurant
* Order
* Accounting
* Delivery

> These four services are interacted with by three types of users

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These five services interact with the three types of users below.
```
There are five services listed above.

> These four services are interacted with by three types of users

Reviewer 2: Shall we add a subtopic for users here?

* Consumers
* Restaurants
* Couriers

## Consumer service
The consumer service represents a customer who places orders through the application.

> The data structure of a consumer is as follows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The data structure of a consumer is as follows.
```

```ballerina
public type Consumer record {|
    int id;
    string name;
    string address;
    string email;
|};
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Shall we add a subtopic for endpoints here?

> This service provides four basic endpoints:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This service provides the four basic endpoints below.
```

> ### 1. Create consumer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1. Create a consumer
```

> Endpoint: `/`  
> Method: `POST`  
> Request payload: `ConsumerRequest`  

> Creates a new consumer using the provided details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creates a new consumer using the provided details.
```
Shall we move this to the top after the topic `1. Create a consumer`?

> ### 2. Get consumer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. Get a consumer
```

> Endpoint: `/<consumerId>`  
> Method: `GET`  

> Retrieves the details of the consumer with the given ID. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Retrieves the details of the consumer with the given ID. 
```
Shall we move this to the top after the topic?

### 3. Delete consumer
> Endpoint: `/<consumerId>`  
> Method: `DELETE`  

> Deleted the consumer with the given ID. Returns a 404 Not Found error if a consumer with the given ID is not found. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deleted the consumer with the given ID. Returns a `404 Not Found` error if a consumer with the given ID is not found. 
```
Shall we move this to the top after the topic?

### 4. Update consumer
> Endpoint: `/<consumerId>`  
> Method: `POST`  
> Request payload: `ConsumerRequest`  

> Updates the details of the consumer with the given ID using the provided details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Updates the details of the consumer with the given ID using the provided details.
```
Shall we move this to the top after the topic?

> These four endpoints showcases the basic CRUD functionalities and how it can be achieved with Ballerina.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These four endpoints showcase the basic CRUD functionalities and how they can be achieved with Ballerina.
```
Shall we move this to the top after the topic for the consumer endpoints??

### Data storage and retrieval

> The consumer service has it's own MySQL database for storing relevant consumer data. Since this service does not access data outside of it's own module, there is no requirement to make any REST API calls to access the other microservices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The consumer service has its own MySQL database for storing relevant consumer data. Since this service does not access data outside of its own module, there is no requirement to make any REST API calls to access the other microservices.
```

### Order validation

> This service also provides the endpoint `<consumerId>/validate` to validate an order placed by a consumer. This method is currently a dummy method, and does not perform any functional business logic. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This service also provides the endpoint `<consumerId>/validate` to validate an order placed by a consumer. This method is currently a dummy method and does not perform any functional business logic. 
```

### Running the module
1. Set up a MySQL database and create the relevant tables using the queries in the `init.sql` file in the `consumer` directory.
2. Configure the database connection properties in the `Config.toml` file in the `consumer` directory. 

> 3. To run the consumer service, simply navigate to the `consumer` directory and execute `bal run` in the terminal. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To run the consumer service, navigate to the `consumer` directory and execute `bal run` in the terminal. 
```

## Restaurant service

> The restaurant service represents a restaurant, with its menu, menu items and prices. A restaurant can contain multiple menus; and a menu can contain multiple menu items.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The restaurant service represents a restaurant with its menu, menu items, and prices. A restaurant can contain multiple menus and a menu can contain multiple menu items.
```

The basic data structure of a restaurant and its associated data types are as follows.
```ballerina
type Restaurant record {|
    int id;
    string name;
    string address;
    Menu[] menus;
|};

type Menu record {|
    int id;
    string name;
    MenuItem[] items;
|};

type MenuItem record {|
    int id;
    string name;
    decimal price;
|};
```

> This service provides endpoints to perform basic CRUD functionalities with restaurants, menus and menu items through 12 different endpoints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This service provides endpoints to perform basic CRUD functionalities with restaurants, menus, and menu items through 12 different endpoints.
```
Shall we move this to the top to place it after the respective topic.

### Managing tickets

> The restaurant service also provides endpoints to create and view tickets, as well as update their status. A ticket contains the following information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The restaurant service also provides endpoints to create and view tickets as well as update their status. A ticket contains the following information:
```

```ballerina
type Ticket record {|
    int id;
    Restaurant restaurant;
    Order 'order;
    TicketState status;
|};
```

A ticket can be in one of the following states:
* `ACCEPTED`
* `PREPARING`
* `READY_FOR_PICKUP`
* `PICKED_UP`

> When a ticket is created, it will initially be in the `ACCEPTED` state. The state of a ticket can be advanced to each state using the three endpoints defined.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a ticket is created, it will initially be in the `ACCEPTED` state. The state of a ticket can be advanced to each state below using the three endpoints defined.
```

* To `PREPARING`: `restaurant/<restaurantId>/ticket/<ticketId>/mark/preparing`
* To `READY_FOR_PICKUP`: `restaurant/<restaurantId>/ticket/<ticketId>/mark/ready`
* To `PICKED_UP`: `restaurant/<restaurantId>/ticket/<ticketId>/mark/pickedUp`

In each of these scenarios, the corresponding state of the `Order` in the `Order Service` is also changed.

![Ticket Sequence](/assets/ticket_sequence.png)

### Data storage and retrieval

> The restaurant service has it's own MySQL database for storing relevant restaurant data. Since this services accesses data from the `Order Service` it is required to configure this endpoint and make REST API calls whenever necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The restaurant service has its own MySQL database for storing relevant restaurant data. Since this service accesses data from the `Order Service` it is required to configure this endpoint and make REST API calls whenever necessary.
```

### Running the module
1. Set up a MySQL database and create the relevant tables using the queries in the `init.sql` file in the `restaurant` directory.
2. Configure the database connection properties as well as the order endpoint in the `Config.toml` file in the `restaurant` directory. 

> 3. To run the consumer service, simply navigate to the `restaurant` directory and execute `bal run` in the terminal. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To run the consumer service, navigate to the `restaurant` directory and execute `bal run` in the terminal. 
```

## Order service

> The order service handles orders placed by a consumer for a restaurant. This service is central to this example. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The order service handles orders placed by a consumer of a restaurant. This service is central to this example. 
```

The basic data structure of an order is as follows:
```ballerina
type Order record {|
    int id;
    Consumer consumer;
    Restaurant restaurant;
    OrderItem[] orderItems;
    string deliveryAddress;
    time:Civil deliveryTime;
    OrderState status;
|};

type OrderItem record {|
    int id;
    MenuItem menuItem;
    int quantity;
|};
```

> This service provides 4 endpoints to perform basic CRUD functionalities with orders.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This service provides 4 endpoints to perform basic CRUD functionalities with orders.
```
Shall we move this to the top to place it after the respective topic?

An order can be in one of the following states:
* `APPROVAL_PENDING`
* `APPROVED`
* `REJECTED`
* `ACCEPTED`
* `PREPARING`
* `READY_FOR_PICKUP`
* `PICKED_UP`
* `DELIVERED`
* `CANCELLED`

As an order is created, it is initially in the `APPROVAL_PENDING` stage. 
- As it moves into the `ACCEPTED` stage after the order is confirmed, a ticket has to be created in the restaurant. 

> - As it moves into the `READY_FOR_PICKUP` stage, a delivery has to be scheduled using the `Delivery Service`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- As it moves into the `READY_FOR_PICKUP` stage, delivery has to be scheduled using the delivery service.
```

![Order Sequence](/assets/order_sequence.png)

### Data storage and retrieval

> The restaurant service has it's own MySQL database for storing relevant restaurant data. Since this services accesses data from the other services it is required to configure these endpoints and make REST API calls whenever necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The restaurant service has its own MySQL database for storing relevant restaurant data. Since this service accesses data from the other services it is required to configure these endpoints and make REST API calls whenever necessary.
```

### Running the module
1. Set up a MySQL database and create the relevant tables using the queries in the `init.sql` file in the `order` directory.
2. Configure the database connection properties as well as the endpoint configurations in the `Config.toml` file in the `order` directory. 

> 3. To run the consumer service, simply navigate to the `order` directory and execute `bal run` in the terminal. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To run the consumer service, navigate to the `order` directory and execute `bal run` in the terminal. 
```

## Accounting service

> The accounting service calulates the fee to be charged from the consumer and manages the accounting process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `accounting` service calculates the fee to be charged from the consumer and manages the accounting process.
```

## Delivery Service

> The delivery service is responsible for the management of couriers and managing the delivery of orders from the restaurant to the consumer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The delivery service is responsible for the management of couriers and delivery of orders from the restaurant to the consumer.
```
